# LAMP Primer Design Project

This project is designed to find primers for LAMP (Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification) using heuristic methods. It includes a Python script that utilizes the Primer3 library to generate potential primers independently and a set of heuristic functions to filter and combine these primers into sets that meet specific criteria.

## Table of Contents

- Installation
- Usage
- Environment
- Files
- Contributing
- License

## Installation

To install the necessary dependencies, please use the provided `environment.yml` file with Conda:

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

This will create a new Conda environment with all the dependencies required for the project.

## Usage

To run the primer design, execute the `main.py` script with a FASTA file as an argument:

```bash
python main.py path_to_your_fasta/file.fasta
```

The script will generate a CSV file named `candidate_result.csv` containing the potential LAMP primer sets.

## Environment

The project uses the following dependencies:

- Python 3.8
- Primer3-py
- Biopython 1.78

These are managed through the `environment.yml` file.

## Files

- `main.py`: The main script that parses the FASTA file and designs the LAMP primers.
- `heuristic_primer_design.py`: A module containing the heuristic functions for primer design.
- `environment.yml`: A YAML file for managing the project's environment with Conda.
- `candidate_result.csv`: The output file containing the potential LAMP primer sets (generated by the script).

## Contributing

BMI2201 LAMP_primer_designer groups in Zhejiang University-University of Edinburgh Institute, China.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE` file for details.

